.TH SESSION "1" "8 Dec 2011" "session" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
session \- access and control groups of machines and services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B session
\fBCOMMAND\fR
[\fBOPTION\fR[\fB=\fR\fIARG\fR]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Session is a command-line tool that can help systems administrators
to access and control heterogeneous groups of machines and services.
.PP
Run
.B session help
to see a list of commands.
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
    $ session discover 192.168.0.0/24
    Session: Info: Successfully added entry host unknown-0-2(embedded-like,tel,none,unknown,unknown,192.168.0.2,none).
    Session: Info: Successfully added entry host unknown-0-3(unix-like,ssh,ssh,alfred,root,192.168.0.3,none).
    $ session addconf localhost --type=host --osmt=ubuntu11 --acmt=ssh --exmt=ssh --addr=127.0.0.1 --user=jdthood --admin=root --vrmt=virtualbox --vmhome=/usr/bin --vmdata=/mnt/sda5/virtualbox
    $ session addconf myvrtmchn --type=guest --osmt=winxp --acmt=ssh --exmt=ssh --addr=192.168.10.108 --user=Test --admin=User --host=localhost
    $ session start myvrtmchn
    Waiting for VM "myvrtmchn" to power on...
    VM "myvrtmchn" has been successfully started.
    myvrtmchn: booting
.EE
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBaddconf\fR    - adds a host, guest, service or group to session.conf.
.TP
\fBmodconf\fR    - modify an existing host, guest, service or group in session.conf.
.TP
\fBdelconf\fR    - removes a host, guest, service or group from session.conf.
.TP
\fBdiscover\fR   - scan an ip or an ip subnet.
.TP
\fBcheck\fR      - (state, status) checks state of a host, guest, service or group.
.TP
\fBdetail\fR     - shows all known information about a host, guest or service.
.TP
\fBstart\fR      - attempts to start a host, guest, service or group.
.TP
\fBstop\fR       - attempts to stop a host, guest, service or group.
.TP
\fBrestart\fR    - attempts to restart a host, guest, service or group.
.TP
\fBcreate\fR     - attempts to create a non-existing guest system.
.TP
\fBdestroy\fR    - attempts to destroy an existing guest system.
.TP
\fBaccess\fR     - access a host, guest, service or group using various methods.
.TP
\fBtell\fR       - send a command to the host, guest, service or group.
.TP
\fBsend\fR       - send a directory to the host, guest, service or group.
.TP
\fBkey\fR        - send public key or store credentials for remote admin and user.
.TP
\fBlist\fR       - list hosts, guests, services, groups, osmt, acmt, exmt or vrmt's
.TP
\fBreinit\fR     - reinitializes session's required and detected tools.
.TP
\fBversion\fR    - show session version.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--type=\fR\fITYPE\fR
the type of the added entry (host, guest, service or group).
.TP
\fB--osmt=\fR\fIOSMT\fR
the operating system for the host or guest system
.TP
\fB--acmt=\fR\fIACMT\fR
the access method to be used.
.TP
\fB--exmt=\fR\fIEXMT\fR
the execute method to be used.
.TP
\fB--addr=\fR\fIIPADDR\fR
the IP address for the host, guest or service.
.TP
\fB--port=\fR\fIPORT\fR
(services only) the port on which a service listens.
.TP
\fB--user=\fR\fINAME\fR
the regular user account for the host, guest or service.
.TP
\fB--admin=\fR\fINAME\fR
the administrative account for the host or guest.
.TP
\fB--vrmt=\fR\fIVRMT\fR
(optional, hosts only) the virtualization method supported.
.TP
\fB--vmhome=\fR\fIDIR\fR
(optional, hosts only) where the host stores its vm executables.
.TP
\fB--vmdata=\fR\fIMACHINE\fR
(optional, hosts only) where the host stores its virtual machines.
.TP
\fB--svstatus=\fR\fICMD\fR
(optional, scripted services only) status command for a service.
.TP
\fB--svstart=\fR\fICMD\fR
(optional, scripted services only)  start command for a service.
.TP
\fB--svstop=\fR\fICMD\fR
(optional, scripted services only)   stop command for a service.
.TP
\fB--host=\fR\fIMACHINE\fR
(guests only) the parent host system.
.TP
\fB--members=\fR\fIITEM[,ITEM...]\fR
(groups only) a comma-separated list of hosts and/or guests.

Arguments for privilege specification in access, tell and send:
.TP
\fB--user
run the command with user credentials (default).
.TP
\fB--admin
run the command with admin credentials.
.TP
\fB--service
run the command with service credentials.

Arguments for create and destroy:
.TP
\fB--desc=\fR\fIDESCRIPTION\fR
(optional) annotation (--desc="My description.").
.TP
\fB--numvcpu=\fR\fINUM\fR
the virtual CPU count for guest system (--numvcpu=2).
.TP
\fB--memsize=\fR\fISIZE\fR
the virtual memory size in MB for guest system (--memsize=512).
.TP
\fB--dsksize=\fR\fISIZE\fR
the disk size in GB for guest system (--dsksize=4).
.TP
\fB--guestos=\fR\fIOS\fR
the operating system for guest system (--guestos=other-64).

Arguments for send:
.TP
\fB--source=\fR\fIDIR\fR
the source directory on the local system to send from.
.TP
\fB--target=\fR\fIDIR\fR
the target directory on the remote system to send to.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2011 Rubin Simons.
This manual is part of Session.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ssh (1),
.BR nmap (1).
